aaa_examples/README.md, before:

# AAA Examples
This directory contains example AAA (Authentication, Authorization and Access)
libraries for various use cases. These script will require that
`site/api/lib/config.lua` has one or more OAuth providers specified as
authorities, as such:

~~~
...,
-- This adds Persona and Google OAuth as authorities
admin_oauth = { "verifier.login.persona.org", "www.googleapis.com" }
...
~~~

### AAA by email address:
[`aaa_by_email_address.lua`](aaa_by_email_address.lua) checks against a GLOB
(`valid_email`), and if a logged-in user's email address matches this, provides
access to private lists, provided the OAuth provider used is listed in
`config.lua` as a valid authority.


### AAA by OAuth portal:
[`aaa_by_portal.lua`](aaa_by_portal.lua) checks which OAuth portal was used to
log in. If it's the right (Google in the example), then access to private lists
is granted.


### AAA with access list:
[`aaa_with_subgroups.lua`](aaa_with_subgroups.lua) checks validated accounts
against an access list, and if found, provides access to a specific set of
lists for each individual user.

Commit message:

clarify how to activate these

aaa_examples/README.md, after:

# AAA Examples
This directory contains example AAA (Authentication, Authorization and Access)
libraries for various use cases. 

To activate one of these scripts (or derivatives thereof), simply replace 
`site/api/lib/aaa.lua` with the AAA script of your choice.

These script will require that
`site/api/lib/config.lua` has one or more OAuth providers specified as
authorities, as such:

~~~
...,
-- This adds Persona and Google OAuth as authorities
admin_oauth = { "verifier.login.persona.org", "www.googleapis.com" }
...
~~~

### AAA by email address:
[`aaa_by_email_address.lua`](aaa_by_email_address.lua) checks against a GLOB
(`valid_email`), and if a logged-in user's email address matches this, provides
access to private lists, provided the OAuth provider used is listed in
`config.lua` as a valid authority.


### AAA by OAuth portal:
[`aaa_by_portal.lua`](aaa_by_portal.lua) checks which OAuth portal was used to
log in. If it's the right (Google in the example), then access to private lists
is granted.


### AAA with access list:
[`aaa_with_subgroups.lua`](aaa_with_subgroups.lua) checks validated accounts
against an access list, and if found, provides access to a specific set of
lists for each individual user.
